Do you think, uh, for the, for the neocortex in general, do you,
do you think there's a lot of innovation to be done on the machine side?
You know, you use the computer as a metaphor quite a bit.
Is there different types of computer that would help us build? I mean,
what are the.
Intelligence physical manifestations of intelligent machines? Yeah. Or is it,
oh, oh no, it's gonna be totally crazy. Uh,
we have no idea how this is gonna look out yet. Uh, you can already see this,
um, today we, of course remodeled these things on traditional computers and now,
now GPS are really popular with, with, uh, you know, neural networks and so on.
Um, but there are companies coming up with fundamentally new physical,
so substrates, um, that are just really cool.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I don't think they're gonna work or not. Um,
but I think there'll be decades of innovation here. Yeah, totally.
Do you think the final thing will be messy?
Like our biology is messy or do you think, um, it's it's the,
it's the old bird versus airplane question. Do you think we could just, um,
build airplanes? Yeah. <laugh> that,
that fly way better than birds in the same way we can build, uh, uh,
electrical new.
Cortex. Yeah. You know, can I, can I, can I refund the bird thing a bit?
Cuz I think it's interesting people really misunderstand this,
the rip for others. Um,
the problem they were trying to solve was controlled flight.
How to turn an airplane, not how to propel an airplane.
They weren't worried about that. Interesting. Yeah, they already had,
at that time there was already wing shapes, which they had from studying birds.
There was already gliders that carry people.
The problem was if you put a rudder on the back of a glider and you're turn it,
the plane falls out of the sky. So the problem was how do you control flight?
And they studied birds and they actually had birds in captivity.
They watched birds in wind tunnels.
They observed in the wild and they discovered the secret was the birds twist
their wings when they turned. And so that's what they did on the rip,
by the flyer. They had these sticks that you would twist the wing. And that was,
that was their innovation, not the propellor.
And today airplanes still twist their wings.
We don't twist the entire w we just twist the tail end of it. The, the,
the flaps, which is the same thing.
So today's airplanes fly on the same principles as birds,
which is observed by so everyone get that analogy wrong,
but let's step back from that. Right?
Once you understand the principle as a flight,
you can choose how to implement 'em. Yeah, no,
one's gonna use bones and feathers and muscles. Um,
but they do have wings and, uh, we don't FLA 'em we have propellers.
So when we have the principles of,
of computation that goes onto modeling the world in a brain mm-hmm <affirmative>
we understand those principles, right?
Clearly we have choices out how to end 'em and some of 'em be biological like,
and some won't. And, um,
but I do think there's gonna be a huge amount of innovation here.
You think about the innovation. When in the computer, they had to invent the,
the, the transistor invented the Silicon ship. They had to invent,
you know, then just software. I mean, Gazi of things,
they had to do memory systems, um, we're gonna do, it's gonna be similar.
Well, it's interesting that the deep learning, um,
the effectiveness of deep learning for specific tasks is driving a lot of
innovation in the hardware we, which may have effects for, uh,
actually allowing us to discover intelligence systems that operate very
differently. Yeah. Or at least much bigger than deep learning. Yeah.
Interesting.
So ultimately it's good to have an application that's making our life better
now because the, the, the capitalist process, if you can make money. Yeah.
Yeah. That works. I mean, the other way, I mean,
Neil degra Tyson writes about this is the other way we fund science of course,
is through military. So like, yeah. Conquest.
So here, here's an interesting thing we're doing on this regard.
So we've decided we, we, we used to have a series, these biological principles,
and we can see how to build these intelligent machines,
but we've decided to apply some of,
of these principles to today's machine learning techniques.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>. So, uh, one of the, we didn't talk about this principle.
One is, uh, a sparsity in the brain. Um,
most of the neurons are inactive at any point in time,
sparse and the connectivity to sparse and that's different,
the deep learning networks. Um,
so we've already shown that we can speed up existing, deep learning networks,
uh, anywhere from 10 to a factor of our hundred, I mean, literally a hundred,
um, and make it more robust at the same time. So this is commercially very,
very valuable. Um, and so, you know,
if we can prove this actually in, in the,
the largest systems that are commercially applied today,
there's a big commercial desire to do this. Well.
Sparsity is something that doesn't run really well on existing
hardware. It doesn't really run really well on, on, um, GPU, um,
and on CPUs. And so that would be a way of sort of bringing more,
a more brain principles into the existing system on a,
on a commercially valuable basis.
Another thing we can think we can do is we're gonna use the, these D rights, um,
models of we, uh, I talked earlier about the,
the prediction occurring inside in their own mm-hmm <affirmative> that,
that basic property can be applied to existing their own networks and allow them
to learn continuously which something they don't do today. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And so the, the DRI spikes that you were talking about. Yeah.
Well, we wouldn't model the spikes,
but the idea that you have that neuro today's neural networks have this company
called the point neuron, which is a very simple model of the neuron and, uh,
by adding D rights to 'em at this one more level of complexity,
that's in BI systems, you can solve problems in continuous learning, um,
and rapid learning. So we're trying to take, we're trying to bring existing, uh,
field and we'll see if we can do it.
We're trying to bring the existing field of machine learning, uh, commercially,
along with us, you brought up this idea of keeping, you know, paying for it.
Mm-hmm, <affirmative> commercially, along with us,
as we move towards the ultimate goal of a true AI system.
Even small innovations on your own networks are really, really exciting. Yeah.
Cause it seems like such a trivial model of the brain <laugh> and,
and applying different insights that just even, like you said, continuous,
uh, learning, or, uh,
making it more asynchronous or maybe making more dynamic make,
or like, uh, incentivizing.
Making it even just one more robust.
Robust, robust, uh,
and making it somehow much better incentivizing Sparky,
uh, somehow.
Yeah. Uh, well,
if you can make things a hundred times faster than there's plenty of in <laugh>
that's true people, people are spending millions of dollars, you know,
just training some of these networks. Now these, uh,
these transforming networks.